Now in this section which could be called our practice section because we want to introduce many new
concepts we'll mostly practice what we already know will add the ability for the authenticated users
to comment on the blog posts.
So we actually have the comment model and it is related to the blog post using them one to many relationship
but what we are missing is the relation between the comments and the users.
So this is I think we already have we have blog posts that each blog post has one to many relationship
where the user can have many blog posts so we'll do the same with the user.
Also we'll need a migration to modify the comments table.
We'll have to modify the seeder to include the user I.D. when comments are generated and also will add
a relation on the User model itself.
And then in the next lectures of this section we'll actually implement this functionality to add comments
which will need to learn more concepts in the next section.
So let's go ahead and do what we have to do.
Now let us start by adding a user idea field to the comments table.
Fortunately we already have our migration.
When we did that and we also included a trick to modify the table differently for the Eskew allied testing
connection and provide a default value so we can reuse that.
So what you have to do is create the migration.
You can use P2P artisan make migration and we'll call it similarly so will do add user to comments table.
Now let's open this migration file.
Now you can close the terminal because we won't be running the migration straight away.
We'll just seed our database after we'll also modify the seeder so we have copied and pasted this code
because this is essentially the same we can even do that with the down method.
So let's copy and paste and you can see that this is this isn't very specific to the blog post to model
because we are just adding user idea column defining it ASM for a key and then on the down method we
remove that foreign key.
So nothing specific to blog posts here we can use that for comments too and it will work.
Okay so we have the migrations defined let's save it make sure it is saved and now let's close those
migrations and take a look at the User model.
So it is referencing the blog post the model using one to many relationship and let's define the same
relationship for comments since we require users to have an account to are the blog post will do the
same with comments.
So this would be one too many to up comment.
So we defined one side of this relation on the User model and on the comment model will add other side
of the relation.
You can even copy that from the blog post because this will belong to our user
okay.
So we have them migration and we have the relation defined.
Now let's take a look at the seeder.
So what we do here is we create some comments using factory and assign our random blog post to particular
comment.
So let's do the same thing.
But first let's open the seeder for the blog posts so blog post tables cedar.
Now what you see here is we are fetching the users and then then taking random user using random method
and assigning this to blog posts.
So we'll do the same for the comments
so here we fetch the user
now we need to use this variable so we not only have to use the post because obviously this doesn't
have access disclosure won't have access to this variable so let's use users and then you can copy this
code.
And now each individual comment will have the user I.D. assigned and we'll pick a random user who wrote
the comment.
Now let's open the terminal and instead of running the migration we'll do peach bee artisan D.B. seed
say yes and we'll just run all the migrations and add the blog posts comments and talks at once
OK so we are done.
Now let's go to the database structure
and now you can see that all the comments have a user I.D. assigned and inside the database structure.
Now the comments have our user I.D. field which is a foreign key to the user's table.
So we are done with modifying our database structure and we also have defined a one to many relationship.
Now what we can also immediately change is that you can see on the view of one individual blog post
you can see not only when the blog post was added but also by whom and we can do the same with comments
because now we have our user I.D. associated to the comments.
So let's find this view which displays a blog post and here we have this Lavell blade component called
updated
and we can provide the name parameter to it too but it's obviously not from the post it is from comment
so just see the changes refresh
and now you will see the name of the comment outer.